tonight a lesson in what not to do if
you're a parent with a beef against the
principle of your kids school
don't become a keyboard warrior and
spray hurtful adjectives on social media
but if you do be prepared to be sued on
Friday a Queensland judge found some
parents who had posted online about the
principle of the tambourine Mountain
High School south of Brisbane it's
landed her and were ordered to pay
damages but despite the ruling of the
court as you'll see this case which is
about to enter its fifth year is so full
of bitterness and belligerence not even
the class dance would think it's over
late one night in March 2016 an online
discussion is circulating among past and
present parents of tambourine Mountain
High School about the school's popular
principal Tracey Bruce but in the wee
hours some parents are using the chance
to settle old scores
I wrote that she's nothing but an evil
nasty horrible person I remember the
night that I wrote it it was 1:30 in the
morning I'd had a couple of Bourbons
there were some horrendous comments on
there like really really bad ones so and
I thought oh bugger it I'll ever go to
the posts were aimed to hurt and they
did if you're going to physically
assault someone and the weapon is a
knife that's very serious the problem is
the weapon these days is social media
and that's the weapon they have used to
hurt me
so began with a few keystrokes a battle
between the principal she's out for
revenge ants on anybody that speaks out
against her
the parents that would last for years
don't push the little people around
that's me
he don't push little people around some
would be destroyed financially we've
lost everything for this woman's hurt
feelings our lives have gone down the
bloody toilet we've got nothing for
others it would come down to physical
assault I said open the door and talk to
me I'll open the door for you where does
it become okay this is my castle this is
where my children feel safe to sleep
every night and this person came and did
this to my home it's a story of
obsession absurdity and some very bad
decisions we wouldn't accept that people
can come into a school and punch a
teacher to make a teacher do what they
want so why do we accept the people can
assault and bully and abuse online in
March 2016
Tracy burrows the longtime principal of
Queensland's Tambourine Mountain High
School was briefly suspended on full pay
the complaint kept confidential as his
standard practice was unproven and she
was reinstated two months later but in
that time the school's PNC Committee
launched an online petition campaigning
against her suspension parents were
invited to comment and there was an
overwhelmingly positive response
but they were also a number of parents
who decided to use the petition as a
forum of attack and that was their first
mistake well our experience with Tracy
bros it wasn't a pleasant one at all
donna and miguel de Lucas were online
that night they decided their time had
come
what did you write online Donna I wrote
that she's nothing but an evil nasty
horrible person and she bought so much
pain and suffering to our family and
many others what she did to our son was
evil the supposed evil Tracy Bruce did
was to expel Donna's son Harrison for
inappropriate behavior on the school bus
he's made a silly immature comment
once-off never happened before and it's
never happened since and the thing is -
he was egged on by his friends to say
that comment and he just said it so what
did Tracy Brice call your son she called
him a sexual predator the comments of
the parents that I made about their
child absolutely did not make those
comments
did you call this on a sexual predator
not at all not at all why would they say
that
sometimes when you're talking to people
and you're describing a situation so if
you say to them your child was involved
in a physical incident at the school
their behavior could be seen as bullying
this is unacceptable the parent can walk
away go you called my child a bully
Tracy says parents of misbehaving
children often hear what they think they
hear but Miguel is adamant he heard
sexual predator and Miguel as you'll
discover in this story is often adamant
we have not made one single thing up so
is it your word against hers what do you
think so because we were both present in
that meeting that day but principal
Tracy had her own witness at the meeting
who
principal who was swiftly put in his
place by Miguel the deputy principal he
went to say something I looked at him in
the eyes and I said you just shut up
stand in that corner and look out the
window I'm here to talk to the head not
the ass what did you write
I wrote that she's a liar a manipulator
gets off on belittling people he's
responsible for every failure at the
school and is not an educator in the
early hours of that same morning another
parent Trudi Arnold also went online to
have a crack at Tracy Bruce it was 1:30
in the morning I'd had a couple of
Bourbons and I was got scrolling through
my newsfeed on Facebook and this support
Tracy bras come through there were some
horrendous comments on there like really
really bad ones some 100 dead some
called her dreadful names horrible so
and I thought oh bugger had I'll ever go
to Trudy always believed Tracy Bruce had
ignored her daughter Madison in favor of
brightest students but Madison had left
the school two years before Facebook
finally gave Trudy the chance to get
even with the principal if you'd read
comments like that made about you how
would you feel if I was the principal of
a high school I take it in my stride
really part of the parcel of the job
isn't it you know you got a cop the good
with the bad she's not just the
principal of the school she's a human
too of course and she should probably
treat other people like they're humans
as well and then she might get the same
respect back if you're not happy with a
decision I make all my actions you have
every right to complain to my supervisor
you have every right to have my actions
and my decisions scrutinized but you
don't have a right to go online and
write nasty things about me
and to destroy my reputation
late that night as the small group of ex
parents hijacked the online discussion
tracy is finally alerted the first I
knew of it was when my little brother
and sister actually started sending me
screenshots of what had actually
happened and I was devastated
I just sat and sobbed hysterically
people who said I'm a monster I'm a
bully the very thing I stand against and
I protect children from I am now and why
would you trust your children with me
do you regret making those comments No
there what happened to us and what we
think she was bullying us and
intimidating us and talking down at us
and she made it quite clear that our son
wasn't worth welcome at her school the
words words strong they were words meant
to hurt there was no other purpose other
than to hurt me
was there on any part of you that
thought no this is nonsense this isn't
true this isn't how I couldn't conduct
my life my education doesn't matter what
I think
if my 15 year old daughter reads them my
elderly father reads them my neighbours
read them there is no truth meter on
social media that's the problem I don't
get I don't have a voice I don't get to
defend myself and say what you're
writing isn't true
the parents had fired the first shots
but they were about to wake up to the
fight of their life tracy bruce decided
enough was enough what would you say to
people out there who would look at this
and just sort of say toughen up yeah
everyone cops abuse you're a principal
you should be immune to this kind of
abuse toughen up yeah yeah if I just
toughen up and go yeah it's okay then
that becomes the norm
what they did was horrendous absolutely
and us why worry about something that's
not true why worry it's not gonna ruin
your reputation is it you know it's not
true everyone else is going to know it's
not true so who cares
Tracy instructed a lawyer to give the
trolling parents a simple choice
apologize or be sued for defamation of
the original parents who posted negative
comments most apologized but a core
group refused including Trudy Arnold
seemingly oblivious to the war she'd
helped start writing those comments at
1:30 in the morning what's that a silly
thing to do
in hindsight quite possibly but you know
I'm an honest person I'd probably do it
again anyway I think it's pathetic and I
think it's ridiculous for a woman her
age hurt feelings she's a principal of a
high school for God's sake and has been
for bloody over 10 years at that point
there is no option what you've done is
against the law and you need to take
these comments down and you need to
retract them and you need to apologize
as for Donna and Miguel not only was
there no apology at one point
Miguel sent Tracy's lawyer a reply that
was well adamant I basically told her
shove it off his ass
the situation was quickly spiraling out
of their control
but Miguel and Donna were not about to
surrender she's out for revenge ants on
anybody that speaks out against her and
that's all we did we're parents that
make complaints and now she's out to get
us
she's picking the low fruit and the tree
to stop anybody from saying anything do
you think she'll win don't care if she
wins or not coming up you can't mediate
with a tyrant nothing left to lose but
still no retreat please just apologize
that's all walk away sorry the
battlefield you have to lose a battle to
win a war their whole purpose of being
there was to humiliate me moves to a
corpse bring it on
that's next on 60 minutes last three and
a half years of our lives every night
every day every weekend this is what our
lives have become the pain stress and
suffering Donna and Miguel de Lucas are
bankrupt they've spent so much on legal
fees their lawyer now owns their house
that was our last resort we started to
incur cost of the cost after costs and
borrowing more money off mum and dad all
the time all this paperwork is their
attempt to represent themselves in a
losing legal battle against the
principle of this sons old school look
I've just done the best that I can do
after paying lawyers to do our defenses
and they kept getting struck out I said
to Miguel
I can't keep borrowing money anymore I'm
gonna have to try and do it myself it's
all because late one night in 2016 they
let their finger
do the talking but so much pain and
suffering to our family
Facebook was their weapon against
principal Tracy Bruce not an
investigator she's not a judgment it was
an online parent-teacher night that
spilled into a real-life war she's
nothing but an evil nasty horrible
person this whole process over the last
three and a half years actually confirms
to me that she is an evil nasty horrible
person so you stand by those words I do
yes
you can't mediate with a tyrant I need
to stand up and I need to say this is
not okay you cannot treat people like
this
you need to be accountable if you're
going to do that online Tracy Bros who's
been principal of tambourine Mountain
High School for nearly 20 years is suing
for parents who she says bullied her
online with abusive posts and who will
not say sorry Trudy Arnold is one liar a
manipulator what I said I meant
I won't retracted I won't take it back
and I don't really don't believe that
anything that any of us said made any
difference to that woman whatsoever
the final parent sued by Tracy Bruce is
Laura Lawson who posted that the
principal had made her children's lives
and nightmare have you apologized for
what you wrote
No will you apologize no other parents
have made apologies yes f that that's up
to them if that's what they wanted to do
and that is fine but those apologies
came with money after three and a half
years with no apologies and no back
downs the case of the principal versus
the parents finally got to court here on
the Gold Coast in October last year by
that stage the four parents involved
were either bankrupt or pretty much
financially ruined they'd lost homes and
savings and spent hundreds of thousands
of dollars in legal fees
got nothing to lose I've just lost my
house my car I've lost everything all my
assets they're all gone there's not a
cent that I have for her what else can
you get from me we've got nothing I
don't own a home other defendants have
lost their homes life has gone I don't
have a life anymore have existed for
three and a half years because of some
stupid woman's hurt feelings I have
nothing left to lose so why not keep
fighting and so they fight on
I felt gutted I just want to say you
know the please just apologize let's all
walk away it doesn't have to be like
this and when you watch people saying
you know I've lost my home because of
this
none of the sale of any home has come to
me they've lost their home trying to
make bad decisions to defend statements
they put online for the galue schizos
Laura Lawson and Trudy Arnold the case
is no longer about winning or losing
it's about trying to convince a judge
and the public following us in the
tabloid media that they are the victims
and Tracey Bruce the bully and I walk in
there with a big smile I face thinking
exposuretime lady you're gonna get
exposed thank you very much because at
the end of all this we have not created
any of this men she her friends her
lawyers have I'm like bring it on that
marked information trials underway at
Southport court in court it swiftly
became clear that this would be a
landmark case on several fronts taking
the witness stand the principal
appearing visibly distressed for
principal Tracey Bruce
her supporters aligning the sand by
teachers against what they perceived to
be bullying parents for the parents it
was a chance to humiliate the woman they
say has ruined them it was a circus an
absolute circus their whole purpose of
being there was to do as much damage to
me as they could possibly do in the
courtroom you have to lose a battle to
win a war that's the way it's always
been
they might think they're winning the
battle or whatever but know what at the
end of the day this exposure that we've
done yeah he's going to open up the can
of worms that's going to win the war
against people like her taking on the
parents has also cost principal Tracey
Bros and her husband Peter dearly
they've spent hundreds of thousands of
dollars defending her reputation other
parents originally included in her
lawsuit have apologized and some paid
damages to cover her costs and damages
are certainly part of her court case
against Donna McGill Trudy and Laura we
know of course the judge may rule in
your favor but not award damages yeah
where would that leave you I have no
expectation on the judge to award
damages the reality is there is no money
coming our way there's been lots and
lots of media around this is all the
money grab and everything like that and
there's certainly no money coming our
way what I need from the judge is for
her to say you cannot do this anymore
you cannot continue to ruin Tracy's
reputation you cannot believe her and
you must stop because I need these
people to stop why why because the
behavior has become so extreme that I am
now unsafe coming up open talk to you
brought for you completely out of
control this is my castle and this
person came who did this to my home but
after years of purity that's Miguel
reaching breaking point
oh here comes the judge four years of
fighting we have just lost everything
that's next on 60 minutes may 21st 2018
late night at the home of Tamborine
mountain high school principal Tracey
Bruce she her husband Peter and their
three children are watching TV but
outside someone is watching them one of
the parents she's suing for posting
online comments she believes defamed her
Miguel
Baloo's cos all my life I've been pushed
around by people and as I've gotten
older I've realized hang on a second the
only way to stop this is to push back
the next minute just a huge bang and the
bolts flew at the top there and I've
gone like hollered what's going on
Miguel goes berserk inside there's sheer
terror the children locked themselves in
a cupboard once you told many many many
times that our young children were in
here you need to stop
Miguel's frenzied attack lasts 25
minutes
[Music]
but it's not acceptable to smash
somebody's drawing like that that's
flying into their mouth sure yeah that's
that you know what what I did there is
what I said I was going to do and what I
said I was going to do from the very
very beginning what was going through
your mind when he kicked in the door in
that glass kept in its really simple
Sarah I said open the door and talk to
me I'll open the door for you
Miguel was convicted of unlawful damage
but both he and Donna are unrepentant
did you know her children were at home
as well does she know that my children
live in my house as well she's been
terminating us and our family for many
years
so that's Miguel reaching breaking point
yeah that's three years in the making
what had begun one night in 2016 as a
few disgruntled parents trolling Tracy
Bruce online had finally turned violent
how can you justify going around at
someone's house in the middle of the
night smashing the doors down it's
terrifying their kids and not leaving
until you're threatened with a knife
like how do you get to that point and
why would you get to that point this is
my castle this is where my children feel
safe to sleep every night and this
person came and did this to my home and
the purpose for doing it was to
discourage me from this legal action
it's the eve of the decision Donna and
Miguel will soon know if the judge has
believed anything they've said including
their latest wild claim that the whole
case is a conspiracy against them we
have just lost everything four years of
fighting false claims false allegations
lost the house lost the car lost the
caravan had been sent bankrupt by this
bitch who has sent us down a trail of
false claims
Friday morning after four long years of
what has surely been the most bitter
parent-teacher battle in Australian
history there will be a verdict I don't
need money
I don't need damages I need her to say
this isn't okay and it needs to stop
because if she doesn't say it needs to
stop what then next week
they get back online and write more
stuff they're bashing at you door again
what happens to educators if we can't
feel safe doing our jobs it's the final
showdown between principal Tracy Bruce
and Miguel Donna Laura Lawson and Trudy
Arnold a few keystrokes late one night
have cost nearly a million dollars in
legal fees and damages now inside this
courtroom it's judgment day minutes
later it's over the defamation claims
against Trudy and Laura are dismissed
but Donna and Miguel are found to have
defamed Tracy the judge rejecting their
defenses and gagging them from repeating
some of their allegations against her
you know what I hurt people's feelings
every day do you see me getting sued
every day now - the law changes this is
going to happen every day every day the
judge also criticized principal Tracy
Bruce saying at times her memory was
selective but she sees the gag order
against the be loose cases as her
victory when you have people come to
your home and beat down your front door
to try and intimidate you and to bully
you then the reality is at some point
you have to say enough sanath
do that to us anymore in terms of the
pain money and the judges mixed decision
in this extraordinary case perhaps there
are no winners but in the end
Traci bros feels vindicated as the
principal who stood by her principals I
decided that I couldn't live with myself
if I actually just accepted that it's
okay to treat teachers that way it's not
if the intention on this case saves one
teacher going through what I have gone
through then it's all been worth it
you can't disrespect people and you
can't abuse people you need to be
accountable if you're going to do that
online hello I'm Sarah Arbor thanks for
watching to keep up with the latest from
60 minutes Australia make sure you
subscribe to our Channel
you can also download the 9 now app for
full episodes and other exclusive 60
minutes content